RISC-V MYTH Workshop — Environment Setup (VSD)

This document describes the steps followed to set up and verify the RISC-V workshop environment using GitHub Codespaces and a Linux desktop interface.

1. GitHub Codespace Setup

The RISC-V Codespace was opened using the link provided in the workshop introduction email. The following steps were followed:

Go to the repository and click on Code

Select Codespaces

Click Create codespace on main

This creates a cloud-based development environment with the required RISC-V toolchain.

2. Verification of Setup

A sample program was run inside the Codespace to confirm the environment was working correctly. This ensured that compilation and execution of C programs were functioning as expected.

3. Linux Desktop Setup in Cloud

To access the Linux GUI:

Navigate to the PORTS tab in Codespaces

Click Follow forwarded address for the noVNC Desktop port

This opens the Linux desktop interface in a new browser tab, providing a GUI environment for editing and running programs.

4. Running a Sample Program

Inside the Linux desktop terminal:

Navigate to the sample directory:

cd /workspaces/vsd-riscv2/samples
ls -ltr


Compile and run a sample C program using the native GCC compiler:

gcc sum1ton.c
./a.out


The program executes and produces output in the terminal, confirming the environment is functional.

5. Editing Source Code

The source file was opened using the Linux GUI editor:

gedit sum1ton.c &


This allows editing the program in a graphical editor.

6. Modifying and Re-running

The value of n in the program was modified (for example, n = 15). After saving the changes:

gcc sum1ton.c
./a.out


The updated output is displayed in the terminal, verifying that code modifications are correctly executed.

7. Summary

GitHub Codespaces provides a ready-to-use RISC-V development environment.

Linux desktop via noVNC allows GUI-based editing and running of programs.

Sample programs can be compiled and executed to verify setup.

Source code can be modified and re-run to check results.

This process ensures the workshop environment is fully operational and ready for RISC-V experiments.